#summary Some Background on the Project

= Introduction =

Visual Analytics requires the management of huge datasets in a human‐centered process. Designing a software infrastructure for that scale is already a challenge; designing several is a loss of resources both for research and industry. The workshop will gather leading researchers and practitioners involved in designing software infrastructures for Visual Analytics systems to find where the consensus are, what can be standardized and plan a program to solve important issues when no clear consensus exists yet. There is a consensus on the architecture of information visualization systems according to several publications of the field (the reference model of Card, Mackinlay and Shneiderman, toolkits such as Prefuse, the InfoVis Toolkit and Tulip). However, Geographical
visualization (with standardization conducted by the “Open Geospatial Consortium”) and statistics involve richer data types than the ones used for classical visualization, thus require additional or more complex software design patterns. An initial step consists in adopting a standard on an architecture that can manage diverse data types to foster interoperability and component sharing. This standard will not be one implementation but rather a set of interfaces described in a language neutral specification (such as IDL as adopted by the W3 Consortium for XML related application programming interfaces) and agreement by partners to adhere to these interfaces for their research systems and products. An additional benefit of this scheme is the possibility to define actual bindings for different programming languages; this is important due to the proliferation of technological platforms in the recent years, including C++, Java, C# and JavaScript/ActiveScript to name a few.

While we believe the initial consensus will concern table‐oriented data and simple networks, several important issues will be left for future work. Examples include asynchronous analytical computation (performing long computations while interactively presenting the most up‐to‐date results to the analyst), history management, deep integration with databases or the management of dynamic data.
The workshop will create a list of the remaining issues and propose an agenda to address them in order of importance.

= Participants =

|| Name || System || URL ||
|| Baudel, Thomas || Discovery  || www2.ilog.com/preview/Discovery  ||
|| Chevalier, Fanny || InfoVis + Tulip  || www.labri.fr/perso/auber/projects/tulip/ ||
|| Duke, David || SciVis Software  || www.comp.leeds.ac.uk/vvr ||
|| Favart, Christophe || Business Intelligence  || www.businessobjects.com ||
|| Fekete, Jean‐Daniel || InfoVis Toolkit  || ivtk.sourceforge.net ||
|| Heer, Jeffrey || Prefuse/Flare  || www.prefuse.org/ ||
|| O'Madadhain, Joshuah || JUNG  || jung.sourceforge.net/ ||
|| Piringer, Harald || SciVis  || www.vrvis.at/scivis ||
|| Fyscher, Danyel || DynaVis || research.microsoft.com/vibe/projects/dynavis.aspx ||
|| Santucci, Giuseppe || VisDis Libraries || www.dis.uniroma1.it/~santucci/VisDis/InfovisLib.html  ||
|| Smoot, Mike || Cytoscape || www.cytoscape.org ||
|| Theus, Martin || Mondrian || www.theusrus.de/ ||
|| Weaver, Chris || Improvise || www.personal.psu.edu/cew15/improvise/ ||
|| Wood, Jo || LandSerf || www.soi.city.ac.uk/~jwo/landserf/ ||
